---
layout: post
title: git fixup
---

When using git sometimes you want to make a change and include it with the previous commit. The general way to do this is:

{% highlight bash %}
git add <files>
git commit --amend --no-edit
{% endhighlight %}

Sometimes you want to include your change in a commit before the previous one. To do this takes a few steps:

## fixup! and \-\-autosquash

The general way to edit history in git is with `git rebase -i`. `git rebase -i` allows you to re-order remove, edit, and squash commits.

When you do `git rebase --help`, you find this documentation about `--autosquash`:

{% highlight nohighlight %}

--autosquash
    When the commit log message begins with "squash! ..." (or "fixup! ..."), and there is already a commit in the todo list that matches the same ..., automatically modify the todo list of rebase -i so that the commit marked for squashing comes right after the commit to be modified, and change the action of the moved commit from pick to squash (or fixup). A commit matches the ...  if the commit subject matches, or if the ...  refers to the commit’s hash. As a fall-back, partial matches of the commit subject work, too. The recommended way to create fixup/squash commits is by using the --fixup/--squash options of git-commit(1).

    This option is only valid when the --interactive option is used.

{% endhighlight %}

So if we have a commit with the message `fixup! <commit-hash>` where `<commit-hash>` is the hash of the commit you want your changes to be included in, we can do `git rebase -i --autosquash` to get the rebase command to automatically re-order the commits and mark them for being squashed.

{% highlight bash %}
git add <files>
git commit -m "fixup! <commit-hash>"
git rebase -i --autosquash
{% endhighlight %}

Then the interactive rebase editor opens and you have to save and exit. This isn't as nice as the `git commit --amend --no-edit` because you need to make a new commit, and open a text editor during the interactive rebase.

## git fixup &lt;commit-hash&gt;

We can add a new git command `git fixup` by adding an executable called `git-fixup` on our path.

Here is the contents of my `git-fixup` script:

{% highlight bash %}
#!/bin/bash
if [ "$#" -ne 1 ]; then
    echo "usage: git fixup <commit-hash>"
else
    if git cat-file -e $1^{commit} > /dev/null 2>&1; then
      numstaged=$(git diff --cached --numstat | wc -l)
      if [ $numstaged -gt 0 ]
      then
          git commit -m "fixup! $1"
      fi
      GIT_SEQUENCE_EDITOR=true git rebase -i --autosquash --autostash $1^
    else
      echo "$1 is not a valid commit hash"
    fi
fi
{% endhighlight %}

To use this script, you simply find the commit hash of the commit you want to modify and type:

{% highlight bash %}
git add <files>
git fixup <commit-hash>
{% endhighlight %}

This is very similar to the `git commit --amend --no-edit` workflow.

Remember, `git rebase --autosquash` only works for interactive rebases. In order to skip the interactive portion of the rebase we set the environment variable `GIT_SEQUENCE_EDITOR=true` during the `git rebase -i` command, which will automatically accept the suggested rebase actions.
